Talos README.md (#1927)
BBC-archive/psammead: scripts/talos/README.md

# Talos

## Description

> Talos is a bumper bot that runs automatically for Psammead packages.

Reviewer: Can you please explain here why Talos is needed? If you need more context, Drew's talk from last week can be a useful source.

## Manual Usage

> 

Reviewer: An extra explanation here would be useful.
~~~
Manual usage of Talos requires access to our Jenkins CI pipeline. So for now it is limited to those employed by the BBC. If you're an external contributor and want Talos run manually, please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/bbc/psammead/issues/new/choose).

### Using Jenkins

Navigate to [Jenkins](https://ci.news.tools.bbc.co.uk/blue/organizations/jenkins/psammead/branches) and click on the play (run) button, then enter the list of packages you want to bump seperated by commas.

> ![invoke-talos-jenkins](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34196381/63758525-d03ef980-c8b3-11e9-9b8c-d4f9a451237b.png)

Reviewer: This is updating the alt text for the image so that it is descriptive. 
```suggestion
![screenshot showing the Jenkins interface, starting a Talos job updating react,styled-components](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34196381/63758525-d03ef980-c8b3-11e9-9b8c-d4f9a451237b.png)
```

### Using CLI (not recommended) 

>     npm run talos "[insert package names with @bbc/]"

Reviewer: It'd be best to replace this with an explanation of why it's not recommended to run Talos via CLI. This is because if you create the command to make it easy to copy and paste, people will use it.
```suggestion
```

## How to review PRs?

PRs can be reviewed like any other PR. The PRs should be tested according to what is being bumped.

## When a Talos PR gets conflicts how can I rebase/recreate it?

Manually invoking Talos and entering the packages you want to bump can resolve conflicts.

## Does Talos auto-update itself with the latest branch?

Talos only runs on latest therefore does not need to.

## Does Talos handle the package bumping and changelog?

Yes. When you make a Psammead package change you publish a new version of it.

When these changes are published, Talos will find where the packages are used across Psammead and will bump them, increasing the version number, then writes a changelog, makes a branch and creates a pull request.

Developers and testers need to review, test and merge the PR.

## How does Talos treat Release Candidate, alpha, beta and v0.X package versions?

They are ignored by Talos as it only runs on latest.

> ## When Psammead is up to date how do I pull changes through to Simorgh?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When Psammead is up to date how do I pull changes in my application?
```
Suggesting this change, since people can use Psammead in different applications, not just Simorgh.

> The package versions need to be manually updated in Simorgh, then run ``npm install`` in your CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can go into your application and update your `package.json` to include the recently published psammead packages. Then run `npm install`
```

## I don't see why I wouldn't want to try to update everything, how do I invoke it with \*/ALL packages being updated?

> You would only want to bump packages for components that you have actually changed. This is to reduce the complexity of the PRs generated, allows reviewers to focus on components changed and speeds up testing.

Reviewer: 👍 Great that you've answered this question.

# Talos

## Description

> Talos is a bumper bot which runs automatically on the latest branch of Psammead. Talos was created to make life easier for developers, with Talos they do not need to keep track of their dependencies, it saves time, makes sure dependencies are up to date and prevents conflicts. Furthermore, it bumps everything packages in 2 PRs, therefore it is quicker to review PRs, whereas Dependabot would do the same in more than 2 PRs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Talos is a bumper bot which runs automatically on the latest branch of Psammead. Talos was created to make life easier for developers, with Talos they do not need to keep track of their dependencies, it saves time, makes sure dependencies are up to date and it will prevent a duplicate package bundle from existing in external applications when multiple Psammead packages are used. Furthermore, it bumps everything packages in 2 PRs, therefore it is quicker to review PRs, whereas Dependabot would do the same in more than 2 PRs.
```

Reviewer 2: `prevent a duplicate package bundle from existing in external applications when multiple Psammead packages are used.` i added this

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/bbc/simorgh/blob/latest/webpack.config.client.js#L91-L95
we use inspectpack in Simorgh to check for duplication, you could include a description of this

# Talos

## Description

Talos is a bumper bot for Psammead packages.

> ## Usage

Reviewer 3: Can we make it clearer that Talos runs automatically and that you do not have to always run it manually initially?

### Using Jenkins

> Navigate to Jenkins and click on the play (run) button, then enter the list of packages you want to bump seperated by commas.

Reviewer 2: could you include a link to the Jenkins job.

### Using CLI (not recommended) 

    npm run talos "[insert package names with @bbc/]"

## How to review PRs?

PRs can be reviewed like any other PR. The PRs should be tested according to what is being bumped.

## When a Talos PR gets conflicts how can I rebase/recreate it?

Manually invoking Talos and entering the packages you want to bump can resolve conflicts.

## Does Talos auto-update itself with the latest branch?

Talos only runs on latest therefore does not need to.

## Does Talos handle the package bumping and changelog?

Yes. When you make a Psammead package change you publish a new version of it.

When these changes are published, Talos will find where the packages are used across Psammead and will bump them, increasing the version number, then writes a changelog, makes a branch and creates a pull request.

Developers and testers need to review, test and merge the PR.

## How does Talos treat Release Candidate, alpha, beta and v0.X package versions?

They are ignored by Talos as it only runs on latest.

## When Psammead is up to date how do I pull changes through to Simorgh?

> Changes can be pulled manually before dependabot or it can do it for you.

Reviewer 3: This line doesn't make sense, before dependabot what, and what can do what for you?

# Talos

## Description

> Talos is a bumper bot which runs automatically on the latest branch of Psammead. Talos was created to make life easier for developers, with Talos they do not need to keep track of their dependencies, it saves time, makes sure dependencies are up to date and it will prevent a duplicate package bundle from existing in external applications when multiple Psammead packages are used. Furthermore, it bumps everything packages in 2 PRs, therefore it is quicker to review PRs, whereas Dependabot would do the same in more than 2 PRs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Talos is a bumper bot which runs automatically on the latest branch of Psammead. Talos was created to make life easier for developers, with Talos they do not need to keep track of their dependencies. It saves time, makes sure dependencies are up to date and it will prevent a duplicate package bundle from existing in external applications when multiple Psammead packages are used. Furthermore, it bumps all required packages in 2 PRs, therefore it is quicker to review PRs, whereas Dependabot would do the same in more than 2 PRs.
```

Simorgh uses `inspectpack` which checks if there are any duplicate package bundles in our application, if packages are duplicated they will not be accepted and will be flagged.

> Talos solves this issue as it ensure the package version is the same across the whole application (Psammead).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Talos solves this issue as it ensures the package version is the same across the whole application (Psammead).
```

## Manual Usage

Manual usage of Talos requires access to our Jenkins CI pipeline. So for now it is limited to those employed by the BBC. If you're an external contributor and want Talos run manually, please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/bbc/psammead/issues/new/choose). 

### Using Jenkins

Navigate to [Jenkins](https://ci.news.tools.bbc.co.uk/blue/organizations/jenkins/psammead/branches) and click on the play (run) button, then enter the list of packages you want to bump seperated by commas.

![screenshot showing the Jenkins interface, starting a Talos job updating react,styled-components](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34196381/63758525-d03ef980-c8b3-11e9-9b8c-d4f9a451237b.png)

### Using CLI (not recommended)

> Talos uses the Github API, therefore requires a token. Talos can be used if you setup the Github token, but its is not recommended.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Talos uses the Github API, therefore requires a token. Talos can be used if you setup the Github token, but it is not recommended.
```

## How to review PRs?

PRs can be reviewed like any other PR. The PRs should be tested according to what is being bumped.

## When a Talos PR gets conflicts how can I rebase/recreate it?

Manually invoking Talos and entering the packages you want to bump can resolve conflicts.

## Does Talos auto-update itself with the latest branch?

Talos only runs on latest therefore does not need to.

## Does Talos handle the package bumping and changelog?

Yes. When you make a Psammead package change you publish a new version of it.

> When these changes are published, Talos will find where the packages are used across Psammead and will bump them, increasing the version number, then writes a changelog, makes a branch and creates a pull request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When these changes are published, Talos will find where the packages are used across Psammead and will bump them, increasing the version number. It then writes a changelog, makes a branch and creates a pull request.
```

Developers and testers need to review, test and merge the PR.

## How does Talos treat Release Candidate, alpha, beta and v0.X package versions?

They are ignored by Talos as it only runs on latest.

> ## When Psammead is up to date how do I pull changes in my application?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## When Psammead is up to date how do I pull changes in to my application?
```

# Talos

## Description

Talos is a bumper bot which runs automatically on the latest branch of Psammead. Talos was created to make life easier for developers, with Talos they do not need to keep track of their dependencies. It saves time, makes sure dependencies are up to date and it will prevent a duplicate package bundle from existing in external applications when multiple Psammead packages are used. Furthermore, it bumps all required packages in 2 PRs, therefore it is quicker to review PRs, whereas Dependabot would do the same in more than 2 PRs.

Simorgh uses `inspectpack` which checks if there are any duplicate package bundles in our application, if packages are duplicated they will not be accepted and will be flagged.

> Talos solves this issue as it ensures the package version is the same across the whole application (Psammead).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Talos solves this issue as it ensures the package version is the same across the whole monorepo of packages (Psammead).
```

## Manual Usage

Manual usage of Talos requires access to our Jenkins CI pipeline. So for now it is limited to those employed by the BBC. If you're an external contributor and want Talos run manually, please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/bbc/psammead/issues/new/choose). 

### Using Jenkins

> Navigate to [Jenkins](https://ci.news.tools.bbc.co.uk/blue/organizations/jenkins/psammead/branches) and click on the play (run) button, then enter the list of packages you want to bump seperated by commas.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Navigate to [Jenkins](https://ci.news.tools.bbc.co.uk/blue/organizations/jenkins/psammead/branches) and click on the play (run) button on the `latest` branch, then enter the list of packages you want to bump seperated by commas.
```

<img align="middle" alt="screenshot showing the Jenkins interface, starting a Talos job updating react,styled-components" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34196381/63758525-d03ef980-c8b3-11e9-9b8c-d4f9a451237b.png">

### Using CLI (not recommended)

> Talos uses the Github API, therefore requires a token. Talos can be used if you setup the Github token, but it is not recommended.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Talos uses the Github API, therefore requires a token. Talos can be used if you setup the Github token, but it is not recommended. If this is needed, your GitHub token must be available as an environment variable called `GITHUB_TOKEN`.
```

## FAQs

#### How to review PRs?

PRs can be reviewed like any other PR. The PRs should be tested according to what is being bumped.

#### When a Talos PR gets conflicts how can I rebase/recreate it?

Manually invoking Talos and entering the packages you want to bump can resolve conflicts.

#### Does Talos auto-update itself with the latest branch?

Talos only runs on latest therefore does not need to.

#### Does Talos handle the package bumping and changelog?

Yes. When you make a Psammead package change you publish a new version of it.

When these changes are published, Talos will find where the packages are used across Psammead and will bump them, increasing the version number, then writes a changelog, makes a branch and creates a pull request.

> Developers and testers need to review, test and merge the PR.

Reviewer 2: We chould answer the question: `how do we test Talos PRs?`

@PriyaKR may have a good answer to this.

Reviewer 5: how do we test Talos PRs?

If the PR just updates the dev dependencies there wouldn't be any testing required from the test team.But if there are other dependencies updated then a regression testing along with testing of the changes gone in that version for the individual component is required.

#### How does Talos treat Release Candidate, alpha, beta and v0.X package versions?

> They are ignored by Talos as it only runs on latest.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
They are ignored by Talos as it only updates to the `latest` release of dependancies.
```

Manual usage of Talos requires access to our Jenkins CI pipeline. So for now it is limited to those employed by the BBC. If you're an external contributor and want Talos run manually, please feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/bbc/psammead/issues/new/choose).

### Using Jenkins

Navigate to [Jenkins](https://ci.news.tools.bbc.co.uk/blue/organizations/jenkins/psammead/branches) and click on the play (run) button on the `latest` branch, then enter the list of packages you want to bump seperated by commas.

<img align="middle" alt="screenshot showing the Jenkins interface, starting a Talos job updating react,styled-components" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/34196381/63758525-d03ef980-c8b3-11e9-9b8c-d4f9a451237b.png">

### Using CLI (not recommended)

Talos uses the Github API, therefore requires a token. Talos can be used if you setup the Github token, but it is not recommended. If this is needed, your GitHub token must be available as an environment variable called `GITHUB_TOKEN`.

## FAQs

#### How to review PRs?

PRs can be reviewed like any other PR. The PRs should be tested according to what is being bumped.

#### How do we test Talos PRs?

> If the PR just updates the dev dependencies there wouldn't be any testing required from the test team.But if there are other dependencies updated then a regression testing along with testing of the changes that have gone in that version for the individual component is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the PR just updates the dev dependencies there wouldn't be any testing required from the test team. But if there are other dependencies updated then a regression testing along with testing of the changes that have gone in that version for the individual component is required.
```
